[WOOTAX-313] Refactor - Migrate the TaxJar rate-table seam onto the Address value object (#2988)
Automattic/woocommerce-services: changelog.txt

* Fix   - Prevent a fatal error during cart and checkout tax calculation when a customization supplies an invalid store address.
* Fix   - Prevent tax calculation from failing when the store address postcode holds more than one comma-separated value.
* Fix   - Accept lower-case country and state codes from the woocommerce_taxjar_nexus_address filter, and fall back to the store address when a custom nexus address is incomplete instead of abandoning the calculation.

> * Fix   - Prevent unbounded growth of WooCommerce tax rate rows when the customer state contains a period, a space, or a non-Latin character.

Reviewer: The old lookup was str_replace(' ','',$state), so 'N Y' became 'NY' and core stored strtoupper(sanitize_key('N Y')) = 'NY' — they matched and no row was duplicated. The PR's own provider note at tests/php/test-class-wc-connect-taxjar-integration.php:2985 says the old code 'happened to agree with sanitize_key() for a space, and only for a space'. Separately, a wholly non-Latin state collapses to '' under sanitize_key(), and core's criterion is `tax_rate_state IN ( %s, '' )`, so the stored '' already matched the second arm of the IN clause. Only punctuation (e.g. 'N.Y.') and partially-collapsing accented Latin (e.g. 'ÎF' -> 'F') actually diverged — the exact distinction the PR's own test provider draws at tests/php/Tax/test-address.php:512-519 and the changelog erases.

```suggestion
* Fix   - Prevent unbounded growth of WooCommerce tax rate rows when the customer state contains a character WooCommerce strips before storing it, such as a period or an accented letter.
```

<!-- preflight -->

Author: Applied verbatim, to both copies — `86eca793`.

You're right, and the mechanism is sharper than the entry was. I checked it against core rather than taking the reasoning as read, so here's what I confirmed and where it landed.

Core writes and reads that column with two different functions, and they are not symmetric:

- **Write** — `WC_Tax::prepare_tax_rate()` singles `tax_rate_state` out for `sanitize_key()` before formatting, i.e. `strtoupper( sanitize_key( $value ) )`. (`includes/class-wc-tax.php:1073`, WC 10.7.0.)
- **Read** — `WC_Tax::get_matched_tax_rates()` builds `tax_rate_state IN ( %s, '' )`. (`includes/class-wc-tax.php:370`.)

So a row is unfindable, and duplicated per calculation, only when the stored value is **non-empty and different** from what the lookup asked for. Your `''` arm is the part the entry missed:

| State | Stored | Old lookup asked for | Duplicated? |
|---|---|---|---|
| `'N Y'` | `NY` | `NY` | no — agreed by accident |
| `'ЛЕН'` | `''` | `ЛЕН` | no — `''` arm matches |
| `'N.Y.'` | `NY` | `N.Y.` | **yes** |
| `'ÎF'` | `F` | `ÎF` | **yes** |

Two things I'd push back on, neither of which changes the outcome:

1. **The `test-address.php:512-519` citation points at the wrong test.** That range is `test_..._city_matches_core_ascii_folding_not_multibyte` — the `jurisdiction_key()` / city byte-parity contract, a different concern. The distinction you mean is drawn by `state_compact_provider()` at `test-address.php:930-949`, which already separates *"Collapse to empty"* from *"Partial collapse — the dangerous shape"*. Right evidence, wrong line.

2. **"a non-Latin character never produced the growth" is too strong the other way.** A *partially* collapsing state does duplicate — `'ÎF'` → `'F'`, `'ÅL'` → `'L'`, `'ЖNY'` → `'NY'`. Only a *wholly* collapsing one is safe. Your replacement wording sidesteps this correctly by keying on "a character WooCommerce strips" instead of naming scripts, which is why I took it as written rather than editing it.

**The same overbroad claim was in two more places**, so `86eca793` fixes those too:

- the `'state containing punctuation'` provider note — *"Any state value carrying a character outside `[a-z0-9_-]` behaved this way, non-ASCII included"*;
- the `state_compact()` docblock, which implied duplication for any non-ASCII state.

**And the gap that let it drift: nothing pinned the collapse at the rate table.** `state_compact_provider()` pins what the *projection* returns; the duplication claim itself was unpinned. `4b07593c` adds two rows to `provide_rate_table_round_trips()`, which feeds both the round-trip test and the matched-rates lookup, so two rows are four cases:

- **`'state partially collapsing'`** (RO / `'ÎF'` → stored `'F'`) — regression test.
- **`'state wholly non-Latin'`** (RU / `'ЛЕН'` → stored `''`) — boundary characterization. It also pins that such an address yields a country-wide rate.

Both cities are plain ASCII on purpose, so the state dimension isn't confounded with the byte-parity contract `to_find_rates_args()` keeps with core.

Verified in both directions by reverting `state_compact()` to the old `strtoupper( str_replace( ' ', '', … ) )` — core sanitizes the write regardless, so that one line reproduces the old seam:

- `partially collapsing` — **both cases fail.** Round trip inserts a second row (`3 !== 2`); `allow_street_address_for_matched_rates()` cannot see the row `create_or_update_tax_rate()` had just written.
- `wholly non-Latin` — **both cases pass.** So it is a characterization, not a regression test, and that is the direct measurement of your claim.

Suite **366 tests / 899 assertions** green (was 362/881 — exactly +4/+18). PHPCS zero new: 5 violations on the two changed PHP files before and after.

Note the PR description's "331 tests / 793 assertions" is now stale — I've left it rather than editing the body mid-review.
